---
layout: post
title: ""
gh-repo: mefe-b/talent_nest
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
author: Efe Akkocaoğlu
---

# Talent Nest Project Setup Guide #1

This guide covers the initial setup process for the **Talent Nest** project. You can follow the steps below to get the project up and running.

### Project Details:

- **Ruby Version**: 3.3.6
- **Rails Version**: 8.0.0
- **Database**: PostgreSQL

The relevant GitHub issue for the improvements and changes made in this document can be found [here](https://github.com/mefe-b/talent_nest/issues/1).

### Setup Steps

To set up the project, follow these commands:

```bash
# Create a new Rails project with PostgreSQL as the database, using ESBuild for JavaScript and Bootstrap for CSS
rails _8.0.0_ new talent_nest --javascript=esbuild --database=postgresql --css=bootstrap

# Create the database and run database migrations
rails db:create
rails db:migrate

# Stage all changes, commit, add remote repository, and push to the main branchd
git add .
git commit -m "feat: initialize Rails project with Ruby 3.3.6, Rails 8, and PostgreSQL"
git remote add origin your_github_repo
git push -u origin main
```

[Click here to view the relevant commit details.](https://github.com/mefe-b/talent_nest/commit/3809a18acd34a7ae1611ad5f25066dee45cd705e)

---
### Bootstrap Installation

While setting up the project, we included Bootstrap in our project with the `--css=bootstrap` command.

### JavaScript Installation

There is no need for libraries such as vanilla JavaScript or jQuery. Stimulus is automatically included with the project and covers all JavaScript needs. In the following stages, JavaScript will be used via Stimulus. The project must be started with esbuild `--javascript=esbuild`.

### Commit Structure

At this stage, a conventional commit can be written regarding the transactions made.d

### Basic Configurations

The `.gitignore` file specifies which files and folders Git should ignore.
Adding `db/shcema.rb` to .gitignore is done to prevent database schemas from creating incompatibilities between different environments

The `rubocop.yml` file is used to configure the RuboCop tool for style and quality checks in Ruby code. It should be researched in detail and the most suitable configurations should be written.

HAML is a template language that allows HTML to be written in a simpler and more readable format,
so add the hamlit gem and edit the `application.html.erb` file to use the .haml extension.

Create a `main_controller.rb` for the home page and prepare the `home.html.haml` page and edit it.

And the basic configurations are completed.